# 算法 

Fundamentals (Chapter 1) in the context of this book are the basic principles and
methodology that we use to implement, analyze, and compare algorithms. We consider
our Java programming model, data abstraction, basic data structures, abstract data
types for collections, methods of analyzing algorithm performance, and a case study.



Sorting algorithms (Chapter 2) for rearranging arrays in order are of fundamental
importance. We consider a variety of algorithms in considerable depth, including insertion
sort, selection sort, shellsort, quicksort, mergesort, and heapsort. We also encounter
algorithms for several related problems, including priority queues, selection,
and merging. Many of these algorithms will find application as the basis for other algorithms
later in the book.

Searching algorithms (Chapter 3) for finding specific items among large collections
of items are also of fundamental importance. We discuss basic and advanced methods
for searching, including binary search trees, balanced search trees, and hashing. We
note relationships among these methods and compare performance.
Graphs (Chapter 4) are sets of objects and connections, possibly with weights and
orientation. Graphs are useful models for a vast number of difficult and important
problems, and the design of algorithms for processing graphs is a major field of study.
We consider depth-first search, breadth-first search, connectivity problems, and several
algorithms and applications, including Kruskal’s and Prim’s algorithms for finding
minimum spanning tree and Dijkstra’s and the Bellman-Ford algorithms for solving
shortest-paths problems.

### 1.1 抽象数据类型（ADTs）

主要有三种 bag ,queue, stack

算法分析：时间复杂度，空间复杂度